# Rendering Elements

###### Elements are the smallest building block of React apps

- an element describes what you want to see on the screen:
```
const element = <h1>Hello, world</h1>;
```
- unlike browser DOM elements (P, Div, Table, Etc), React elements are plain objects. They are cheap to create. 

- React DOM takes care of updating the DOM to match the React elements.

*Elements are not to be confused with ["components"](https://github.com/Noahsok/React-JS-core-principles/blob/master/step-by-step/a4.%20Components%26Props.md) Elements are what components are "mae of"*

#### Rendering an Element into the DOM
```
<div id="root"></div>
```
- This is called a "root" DOM node because everything inside it will be managed by React DOM.

- Applications built with just React usually have a single root DOM node.
- If integrating React into an existing app, you can have as many isolated root DOM nodes as you like.

- Rendering a React element into a root DOM node, pass both to `ReactDOM.render()`
```
const element = <h1>Hello, world</h1>;
ReactDOM.render(element,
document.getElementById('root));
```
this will display "Hello, World" on the page

#### Updating the Rendered Element

- React elements are `Immutable`. Once you create an element, you can't change its children or attributes. 

It represents the UI at a certain point in time.

- To update the UI is to create a new element, and passit to `ReactDOM.render()`.

##### Consider a Ticking Clock example:
```
function tick() {
  const element = (
    <div>
      <h1> Hello, world!</h1>
      <h2> It is {new Date().toLocaleTimeString()}.</h2>
    </div>
  );
  ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));
}

setInterval(tick, 1000);
```

This calls `ReactDOM.render()` every second from a `setInterval()` callback.

##### React Only Updates What's Necessary

- React DOM compares the element and its children to the previous one, and only applies the DOM updates necessary to bring the DOM to the desired state.

- Even though we create an element describing the whole UI tree on every tick, only the text node whose contents has changed gets updated by React DOM.

Thinking about how the UI should look at any given moment rather than how to change it over time eliminates a whole class of bugs.

#### Read about Components and Props here: [Components & Props](https://github.com/Noahsok/React-JS-core-principles/blob/master/step-by-step/a4.%20Components%26Props.md)
