## Handling Events

Handling events with React elements is very similar to handling events on DOM elements

Here are some syntactic differences:

- React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase
- with JSX you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string.

HTML example:
```
<button onclick="activateLasers()">
  Activate Lasers
</button>
```
###### React example:
```
<button onClick={activateLasers}>
  Activate Lasers
</button>
```

Another Difference is that you connot return `false` to prevent default behavior in React. You must call `preventDefault` explicitly. For example, with plain HTML, to prevent the default link behavior of opening a new page, you can write:
```
<a href="#" onclick="console.log('The link was clicked.'); return false">
Click me
</a>
```
###### React example:
```
function ActionLink() {
  function handleClick(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
    console.log('The link was clicked.');
  }
 return (
 <a href="#" onClick={handleClick}>
    Click me
  </a>
 );
}
```

Here, `e` is a synthetic event. React defines these synthetic events according to the [W3C spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-3-Events/), so you don't need to worry about cross-browser compatibility. see the [SyntheticEvent](https://reactjs.org/docs/events.html) reference to learn more.

When using React you should generally not need to call `addEventListener` to ass listeners to a DOM element after it is created. instead, just provide a listener when the element is initially rendered.

When you define a component using an ES6 class, a common pattern is for an event handler to be a method on the class. 

###### example, this `Toggle` component renders a button that lets the user toggle between "ON" and "OFF" states:
```
class Toggle extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {isToggleOn: true};

// This binding is necessary to make `this` wor in the callback
    this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
  }
  
  handleClick() {
    this.setState(state => ({
      isToggleOn: !state.isToggleOn
    }));
  }
  
  render() {
    return (
      <button onClick={this.handleClick}>
        {this.state.isToggleOn ? 'ON' : 'OFF'}
      </button>
    );
  }
}

ReactDOM.render(
  <Toggle />,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```
You have to be careful about the meaning of `this` in JSX callbacks. In Javascript, class methods are not `bound` by default. if you forget to bind `this.handleClick` and pass it to `onClick`,`this` will be `undefined` when the function is actually called.

This is not React specific behavior; it is part of how functions work in Javascript. Generally, if you refer to a method without `()` after it, such as `onClick={this.handleClick}`, you should bind that method

If you aren't using class fields syntax, you can use an arrow funtion in the callback:
```
class LoggingButton extends React.Component {
  handleClick() {
    console.log('this is', this);
  }
  render() {
    // this syntax ensures 'this' is bound within handleClick
      return (
        <button onClick={(e) => this.handleClick(e)}>
        Click me
        </button>
     );
   }
}
```
the problem with this syntax is that a different callback is created each time the `LoggingButton` renders. in most cases, that is fine. However, if this callback is passed as a prop to lower components, those components might do an extra re-rendering. We genarally recommend binding in the constructor or using the class fields syntax. to avoid this sort of performance problem.

#### Passing Arguments to Event Handlers

Inside a loop it is common to want to pass an extra parameter to an event handler. 

example, if `id` is the row ID, either of the following would work:
```
<button onClick={(e) => this.deleteRow(id, e)}>Delete Row</button>
<button onClick={this.deleteRow.bind(this, id)}>Delete Row</button>
```
These two lines are equivalent, and use arrow funtions and function.prototype.bind respectively

In both cases, the `e` argument representing the React event will be passed as a second argument after the ID. With an arrow function, we have to pass it explicitly, but with `bind` any further arguments are automatically forwarded.
