## Conditional Rendering

**In React, you can create distinct components that encapsulate behavior you need. Then, you can render only some of them, depending on the state of you application.**

Conditional render in React works the same way as in Javascript. Creating elements such as `if` or `conditional operator` to create elements that represent the current state, and let React update the UI to match them.

###### consider these two components: 
```
function UserGreeting(props) {
  return <h1>Welcome back!</h1>;
}

function GuestGreeting(props) {
  return <h1>Please sign up.</h1>
}
```
Next we will creat a `Greeting` component that displays either of these components depending on wether a user is logged in:
```
function Greeting(props) {
  const isLoggedIn = props.isLoggedIn;
  if (isLoggedIn) {
    return <UserGreeting />;
    }
    return <GuestGreeting />;
}

ReactDOM.render(
// Try changing to isLoggedIn={true};
<greeting isLoggedIn={false} />,
document.getElementById('root')
);
```
this example renders a different greeting depending on the value of `isLoggedIn` prop.

#### Element Variables

you can use variables to store elements. This can help you conditonally render a part of the component while the rest of the output doesn't change.

Consider these to new components representing Logout and Login buttons:
```
function LoginButton(props) {
  return (
  <button onCLick={props.onClick}>
    Login
  </button>
  );
}
function LogoutButton(props) {
  return (
    <button onClick={props.onClick}>
      Logout
    </button>
  );
}
```
Creating a [stateful component](https://reactjs.org/docs/state-and-lifecycle.html#adding-local-state-to-a-class) called `LoginControl`. It will render either `<LoginButton />` or `<LogoutButton />` depending on its current state. It will also render a `<Greeting />` 

I have created a Switch component that is a stateful component. you can see it [here](https://codepen.io/noahsok/pen/Exxbbbv?editors=0010)

###### Or 

you can see the code [here](https://github.com/Noahsok/React-JS-core-principles/blob/master/CodePen%20Basic%20Components/Switch-stateful.md)

Declaring a variable and using an `if` statement is a ok way to render a component. However, you might want to refactor it to a shorter syntax. 

There are a few ways to inline conditions in JSX:

#### Inline If with Logical && Operator:





